Editorial review for Window Management API docs (#29719)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/screendetails/screenschange_event/index.md

---
title: "ScreenDetails: screenschange event"
short-title: screenschange
slug: Web/API/ScreenDetails/screenschange_event
page-type: web-api-event
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.ScreenDetails.screenschange_event
---

{{APIRef("Window Management API")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

> The **`screenschange`** event of the {{domxref("ScreenDetails")}} interface is fired when the screens available to the system change in some way.
> 
> Specifically, a _change_ in this context means a screen ({{domxref("ScreenDetailed")}} object) has been added to or removed from the {{domxref("ScreenDetails.screens", "screens")}} array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`screenschange`** event of the {{domxref("ScreenDetails")}} interface is fired when the set of screens available to the system has changed: that is, a new screen has become available or an existing screen has become unavailable. This will be reflected in a change in the {{domxref("ScreenDetails.screens", "screens")}} array.
```

I think "in some way" and then explaining what that means is more indirect.

Author: Sounds good; changed

## Syntax

Use the event name in methods like {{domxref("EventTarget.addEventListener", "addEventListener()")}}, or set an event handler property.

```js
addEventListener("screenschange", (event) => {});

onscreenschange = (event) => {};
```

## Event type

> An event of type `screenschange`, the event object of which is structurally equivalent to an {{domxref("Event")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A generic {{domxref("Event")}}.
```

Author: Updated

{{InheritanceDiagram("Event")}}

## Examples

You could use the `screenschange` event to detect when the available screens have changed, report the change, close all windows, and then reopen them all to suit the new configuration:

```js
screenDetails.addEventListener("screenschange", () => {
  // If the new number of screens is different to the old number of screens, report the difference

>   if (screenDetails.screens.length !== noOfScreens) {

Reviewer: Again consider initializing `noOfScreens` in this code sample.

Author: Done

    console.log(
      `The screen count changed from ${noOfScreens} to ${screenDetails.screens.length}`,

>     );

Reviewer: ...and maybe updating it in this handler as well...

Author: I'm not 100% sure what this means; I think the above change fixes this, same as with the other page. Was there something else to do here?

Reviewer: Sorry, that's not very clear. It was meant to be a follow on from the last comment "consider initializing noOfScreens in this code sample." - if we initialize noOfScreens outside the handler, should we also update it in the handler, if it has changed, so that next time we will report the situation correctly?

i.e. 

initial state:
->  screenDetails.screens.length is 1
      noOfScreens=screenDetails.screens.length (1)

screen connected
-> event fires, screenDetails.screens.length is 2
  - log message
  - noOfScreens=screenDetails.screens.length (2)

screen disconnected
-> event fires, screenDetails.screens.length is 1
  - log message
  - noOfScreens=screenDetails.screens.length (1)
 
...etc

Author: Oh, I see what you mean now. I did a bit of testing around this, and it turns out that we don't need to do this in my actual demo, as each time the handler function is run, all the windows are opened and closed, so you are working with a new value of `noOfScreens` and a new event handler each time.

But in the snippets I show in the docs, this is not clear. I have therefore added the update line you suggested, so that it works in this context.
